[Music]
muffin-top love handles spare tire
however you refer to that stubborn fat
that accumulates on your side's belly
and lower back there's one thing we can
all agree on pit needs to go so how
about a few simple at-home exercises to
chisel your waistline in a week hey hey
try them out for yourself
number one jumping burpees bend at the
knees and put your hands on the ground
then kick your feet back behind you so
that you end up in a straight arm plank
after a moment pull your feet back in
towards your chest quickly stand up and
immediately jump up while reaching your
hands toward the ceiling and clap lower
yourself back into the starting position
and repeat from there you see burpees
help get your blood flowing and your
heart pumping in no time making them an
awesome warm-up exercise on top of that
burpees provide you with a great
full-body workout that targets not only
your abs and obliques as the muscles on
your side where that fat is sitting but
also your arms quadriceps glutes chest
and hamstrings do three sets with 15
reps each two bicycle crunches lie down
on your back and bend your legs so that
your shins are parallel to the ground
raise your chest up and lift your
shoulders off the mat keep your hands
behind your head with your elbows out
move your bent leg right towards your
chest and simultaneously straighten your
left leg so that it's parallel to the
floor while doing that move your left
shoulder towards your right knee
remember that your elbows should remain
out to the sides this way your stomach
not your neck will have to strain the
most this kind of crunch works the sides
of your stomach and hips
do three sets with ten to 20 reps each
number three
kneeling vacuum kneel on the floor with
your bum resting on your heels put your
hands to the sides of your legs and pull
your shoulders back now imagine that you
need to touch your spine with your belly
button and suck your stomach in as far
as possible if it can't pull it in very
far at first
don't sweat it your results will improve
with time hold this position for 5 to 10
seconds if you've never done it before
otherwise you can hold your stomach in
for 20 seconds
some people don't breathe while doing
this exercise while others try not to
interrupt their normal breathing choose
whichever way is more comfortable for
you but don't relax your stomach muscles
this seemingly simple technique works
like magic if you need to reduce your
midsection shrink your waistline and
carve your abdominal muscles repeat this
exercise 5 times before taking a break
number 4 side plank lie on your right
side and lean on your elbow so that it's
directly below your shoulder lift your
hips and hold your weight on your right
elbow and foot if this is too hard for
you at the beginning bend your right leg
and rest it on the floor while keeping
your left leg straight and finally reach
your left hand up toward the ceiling
just like a traditional plank this
exercise works your stomach muscles as
well as your back glutes and core but
most of all the side plank focuses more
on the obliques which is a surefire way
to get rid of love handles try to hold
this one for 15 to 60 seconds on each
side do at least 3 reps
number five swimmers lay down on your
stomach with your arms stretched out in
front of you and shoulder-width apart
your feet should be hip-width apart on
the mat tense your stomach muscles and
lift your left arm and right leg up at
the same time leave them in the air for
two to three seconds then lower them
back to the ground do the same thing
with your right arm and left leg in the
air do 10 reps of five counts on each
side if you want to break a sweat and
burn more fat alternate your legs and
arms quickly 20 times on each side
without letting them touch the ground
this exercise will take care of any
lower back fat it sculpts your rear end
as a bonus number six Russian twist sit
down on the mat with your legs together
and knees slightly bent lean your upper
body back and hold your legs off the
ground you can bend your arms over your
chest or hold them straight out in front
of you whichever you feel most
comfortable doing at first now
slowly twist your torso and arms to the
left side hold it there for three
seconds and then return to the initial
position repeat the movement on the
other side do three sets of ten to
twelve reps each by the way if you do
the Russian twist with some weight in
your hands be it a dumbbell or just a
gallon of water you'll burn calories and
build muscle mass at a much faster rate
number seven woodchoppers stand straight
with your feet shoulder-width apart and
your core engaged you'll need something
with some weight to it to hold in your
hands again a medicine ball or a jug of
water will do whatever it is make sure
you can get a good safe grip on it now
twist your torso to the right and hold
the weight above your right shoulder
the
turn your body and squat down while
bringing the weight to the outside of
your left knee go back up to the right
and repeat keep your eyes on the weight
so that you don't lose your balance also
if you're a beginner don't pick a
heavyweight otherwise it can lead to a
bad rotator cuff injury do 3 sets of 12
to 15 reps on each side
number 8 reverse crunches lie down on
the ground lift your legs in the air and
bend your knees at a 90 degree angle
keep your abdominal muscles tight and
place your hands on the floor right next
to your hips engage your lower abs to
pull your knees up toward your chest at
the top of the movement raise your hips
up in the air so that your lower back
and buttocks come off the ground by a
couple of inches pause at the top of the
movement for a few seconds and then
slowly lower yourself back down to the
starting position just like regular
crunches the reversed ones work the
front of your apps but the especially
hit your lower abdominal muscles do
three sets of 10 to 15 reps each aim to
do this workout four to five times a
week it's also a good idea to throw in
some moderate intensity aerobic
activities like swimming jogging or
cycling that'll really kick up the fat
burning process so that those love
handles melt right off and of course
you'll need to change your guide a
little if you don't want that fat coming
right back or not leaving at all
first cut down your calorie intake 500
fewer calories a day means you'll start
to lose about one to two pounds a week
avoid eating processed and fried foods
it's usually high in added sugars
preservatives and additives you'll also
want to stay away from the usual
offenders sweetened drinks fast food
junk food like cookies and chips and
fatty meat remember that high amounts of
added sugar gets stored exactly around
your stomach which means yep a spare
tire if you're cutting fatty meats like
bacon and sausage simply replace them
with lean alternatives such as fish
chicken turkey and lean red meat it's a
good idea to replace foods rich in carbs
with non starchy veggies such as
cauliflower celery peppers spinach
broccoli tomatoes in the life and
finally drink more water
it'll help reduce your overall weight
and calorie intake so your love handles
will shrink with time so good look out
there and let me know if these exercises
work for you and if you know any other
ways to deal with love handles leave
them down in the comments if you learned
something new today